---
layout: post
title: Welcome to Ecology (BI271)
feature-img: "assets/img/features/forest-505860_1920_edit.jpg"
thumbnail: 
tags: [Welcome, Introduction]
---

> With the utmost sincerity and honesty, I want to say that I'm absolutely thrilled for this semester's course in Ecology!

Why, you might ask? Because
1. it's an important time in our history to be learning about ecology and
2. we've completely revamped the course, including:
    - a new textbook
    - a new lecture structure
    - 2 of the 5 labs are new
    - 2 of the labs have been completely restructured

Last year the other Ecology professor and I were both new hires. That means that we both moved here from other parts of the world (he and I moved from Rhode Island and Ohio, respectively) and, with a lot of help from the Lab Instructors, organized and carried out this course in Ecology. The course was a big experiment: some aspects of the course worked *really* well and others not so well. Well, this fall it's our first opportunity after having significant time to work together (nearly a year) to design this fall's course. We've put a great deal of blood, sweat, and tears into this course to make this the best course in Ecology that we can, which is why I am so thrilled!

This post that you're reading also belongs to another experiment. In Ecology there's consistently great diversity of student interests in this course, with some interested more in policy, some interested more in general biology, and others are testing the waters to see if ecology is a field in which they have interest. These perspectives are highly valued at our liberal arts institution, but it also means that the course material will generally be broad. Because of this, I wanted to create a way to engage those who would like to learn more about ecology in greater depth. To achieve this end, I'll certainly give additional references in lecture material, my office door is always open for further discussion of ecological material, and the book has a great deal of references. However, this semester, I am experimenting with another way of providing material for those who are interested by blogging about ecology. The post contents will likely mostly include news from my lab, news from the department, current events and interesting papers in ecology, or just additional information or elaboration upon a topic in class. The latest 5 blog posts will show up on the home page ([colbyecology.github.io](https://colbyecology.github.io)), and you can discover topics through topics using the search or tag tools in the navigation bag. You can also subscribe to the blog in your RSS feed. tl;dr: I will create posts that are interesting for those who are ecologically oriented.

With that, I'd like to welcome you to Ecology and the fall semester!